Q1:What are primitive datatypes in java?
A1:Primitive data types in Java are predefined by the Java language and named as the reserved keywords. A primitive data type does not share a state with other primitive values. There are 8 Primitive data types in Java – Boolean, char, byte, int, short, long, float, and double.


Q2:What are identifers are in java?
A2:Identifiers in Java are a sequence of characters to identify something in a program. They are names given to a class, variable, package, method, or interface and allow the programmer to refer to the specific item from any place in the program.There are some reserved words that cannot be used as identifier.


Q3:What is Final class in java?
The final keyword in java is used to restrict the user, similarly, the final class means that the class cannot be extended. 

Q4:What are two ways to make class final in java?
we can make a class final in java by using the keyword FINAL.
Another way to make a class final is to declare all the constructors as private so that it cannot be subclassed.


Q5:Can we create instance of final class in another class?
Yes we can cretae the instance of final class but it cannot be inherited.


Q6: What is Volatile keyword used for?
The volatile keyword prevents the compiler from performing optimization on code involving volatile objects, thus ensuring that each volatile variable assignment and read has a corresponding memory access and should not be cached.


Q7: What is the use of Transient keyword?
The primary role of the transient keyword comes in cases of serialization.Transient keyword indicates that afield should not be serialzed .


Q8:What are the type of type casting in java?
In Java, type casting is a method or process that converts a data type into another data type in both ways manually and automatically.There are two types of type casting namely primitive and explicit.
Primitive Type casting-converting a smaller type to a larger type size (automatically).
Derived  Type casting- converting a larger type to a smaller size type
(manually).


Q9: What is boxing and unboxing in java?
we can understand boxing as a wrapping operation to transform a primitive type into an object (wrapper datatype).
Unwrapping the wrapper class object into corresponding primitive content is called unboxing.

Q10:What is the difference between keywords,identifiers and literals in java?
 Keywords are the reserved words that have a pre defined meaning for the compiler and hence are restricted to be used as identifiers.

Identifiers are the name assigned to different programming constructs like classes, interfaces, methods , variables etc.

Literals are the values that are assigned to Identifiers.these are three in number(true,false,null).

For example

int count = 0;

in the above statement "int" is a keyword, "count" is an identifier and "0" is a literal